---
layout: bio
note: formal
firsappear: NSBE Magazine Rising Stars article
---

Dr. Sarah Brown is a Chancellor’s Postdoctoral Fellow in the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science. Dr. Brown received her BS in Electrical Engineering with a minor in Biomedical Engineering in May 2011 magna cum laude, MS in Electrical and Computer Engineering in January 2014, and PhD in Electrical Engineering in December 2016 all from Northeastern University.  Her graduate studies were supported by a Draper Laboratory Fellowship and a National Science Foundation Graduate Research Fellowship.  Her dissertation, Machine Learning Methods for Computational Psychology, developed application-tailored learning solutions and a better understanding of how to interpret machine learning results in the context of studying how the brain creates affective experiences.  Dr. Brown’s career goals is to be a professor with a long term research agenda of the design and analysis of machine learning methods for scientific research.  This includes development of machine learning methods that are reflective of scientific thinking about experimental data, analyzing their limits in context, and developing context-appropriate performance measures.

Dr. Brown’s research career began as an undergraduate research assistant in her second year and included three research focused coops.  At Mass General Hospital she learned about the intersection of technical and clinical research.  In the BAE Target Development Laboratory Sarah improved performance of software defined radios in an R&D group.  Her third coop at Draper Laboratory she developed signal processing techniques for integration of a variety of physiological signals.   She founded and led for two years the College of Engineering Student Research Engagement committee to create opportunities for research exposure for undergraduates and increased leadership for graduate students.  Sarah has also mentored three undergraduate in academic year and summer research programs.  In summer 2016 Sarah taught the introduction to machine learning for the Data Driven Discovery REU program.  

Outside of the lab, Sarah is a passionate advocate for underrepresented STEM engagement at all levels. Currently she serves as treasurer for Women In Machine Learning and previously as finance and sponsorship chair as a co-organizer for the WiML Workshop. In NSBE, Sarah served in a number of roles at both the local and national levels.  Sarah’s first NSBE student leadership role was as Chapter Academic Excellence Chair and her most recent position was as 2014-2015 National Academic Excellence Chair.  While serving as chapter programs chair Sarah, led the establishment of a TORCH center at the Madison Park Community development corporation’s computer center.  The following year, while serving locally as chapter president she served on the National TORCH committee as Informal Science and Engineering coordinator, planning and executing the society’s first Informal Science and Engineering Fair at the 2010 Annual convention in Toronto.  From 2010-2012 Sarah served as National TORCH chair, leading the effort to better document the society’s community outreach efforts, increase the share of technical outreach relative to traditional community service efforts and expand community focused efforts at annual conventions in St. Louis and Pittsburgh. Recently, Sarah focused her efforts on mentoring others.  This year she has lead leadership development workshops for the Northeastern University Chapter Executive Board.  

Beyond STEM outreach, Sarah has also been active in the Boston community teaching Boston youth positive self development through outdoor activities as a ski instructor and trip leader with Youth Enrichment Services.  
